# 安全存储

Copy From [Apple](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/Security_Overview/CryptographicServices/CryptographicServices.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP30000976-CH3)

## Secure Storage

macOS and iOS provide a number of technologies for secure storage. Of these, the three most commonly used technologies are keychains, FileVault, and data protection.

### Keychains

In concept, a keychain is similar to a physical key ring in that it is a place where keys and other similarly small pieces of data can be stored for later use in performing cryptographic tasks, but the similarity ends there. With a physical key ring, the owner can take the key and use it to unlock something. With a keychain, apps usually do not access the actual key data itself, so they do not risk exposing the keys even if compromised. Instead, they use a unique identifier to identify those keys, and the actual encryption is performed in a separate process called the Security Server (described later in this document).

Thus, a keychain is in some ways more like a heavily armed security guard in full body armor who carries a key ring. You can ask that guard to unlock a door for you if you are authorized to enter, but you usually can’t unlock the door yourself.

macOS also includes a utility that allows users to store and read the data in the keychain, called *Keychain Access*. This utility is described in more detail later, in Keychain Access.

### FileVault

In macOS, FileVault uses encryption to provide encrypted storage for the user’s files. When FileVault is enabled, the disk is decrypted only after an authorized user logs in. (Note that prior to OS X 10.7, FileVault protected only a user’s home directory.)

FileVault and its configuration UI are described in more detail later, in End-User Security Features.

### Data Protection

iOS provides APIs that allow an app to make files accessible only while the device is unlocked to protect their contents from prying eyes. With data protection, files are stored in encrypted form and are decrypted only after the user enters their passcode.

For apps that run in the background, there are also settings that allow the file to remain available until the user shuts down the device.

[后续待读](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/cryptoservices/Introduction/Introduction.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40011172) 