# 签名和验证签名

From [Apple](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/Security_Overview/CryptographicServices/CryptographicServices.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP30000976-CH3)  

## Signing and Verifying

A signature is a way to prove the authenticity [ˌɔːθenˈtɪsəti 真实性，确实性；可靠性] of a message, or to verify the identity [aɪˈdentəti 身份；同一性] of a server, user, or other entity.

In olden days, people sometimes stamped [stæmpt 铭刻的；盖上邮戳的; 贴上邮票stamp过去式] envelopes (信封, envelope的复数) with a wax [wæks 蜡；蜡状物] seal [siːl  密封；印章]. This seal not only proved who sent the message but also proved that no one had opened the message and potentially modified it while in transit  [ˈtrænzɪt,ˈtrænsɪt 运输；经过].

Modern signing achieves many of the same benefits through mathematics. In addition to the data itself, signing and verifying require two pieces of information: the appropriate half of a public-private key pair and a digital certificate.

The sender computes a hash of the message and encrypts it with the private key. The recipient [rɪˈsɪpiənt 接受者；容纳者] also computes a hash and then uses the corresponding public key to decrypt the sender’s hash and compares the hashes. If they are the same, the data was not modified in transit, and you can safely trust that the data was sent by the owner of that key.

The sender’s digital certificate is a collection of data that contains a public key and other identifying information, at the sender’s discretion, such as a person’s name, a company name, a domain name, and a postal (邮政的；邮局的) address. The purpose of the certificate is to tie a public key to a particular person. If you trust the certificate, you also trust that messages signed by the sender’s private key were sent by that person.

To provide a means of determining the legitimacy [lɪˈdʒɪtɪməsi 合法；合理；正统] of a certificate, the sender’s certificate is signed by someone else, whose certificate is in turn signed by someone else, and so on, forming a chain of trust to a certificate that the recipient [rɪˈsɪpiənt 容器，接受者] inherently [ɪnˈherəntli,ɪnˈhɪrəntli  内在地；固有地；天性地] trusts, called an *anchor certificate*. This certificate may be a root certificate—a self-signed certificate that represents a known certificate authority and thus the root of the tree of certificates originating from that authority—or it may be any arbitrary [ˈɑːrbɪtreri 任意的；武断的；专制的] certificate that the user or application developer has explicitly designated as a trusted anchor.

Because the recipient trusts the anchor certificate, the recipient knows that the certificate is valid and, thus, that the sender is who they claim to be. The degree to which the recipient trusts a certificate is defined by two factors:

- Each certificate can contain one or more *certificate extensions* that describe how the certificate can be used. For example, a certificate that is trusted for signing email messages might not be trusted for signing executable code.
- The *trust policy* allows you to trust certificates that would otherwise be untrusted and vice versa ['vɝsə 反之亦然].

A certificate can also be used for authentication. By signing a nonce [nɑːns 临时杜撰的；特定场合的] (a randomly generated challenge string created specifically for this purpose), a user or server can prove that they are in possession [pəˈzeʃn 拥有；财产；领地；自制；着迷] of the private key associated with that certificate. If that certificate is considered trusted (by evaluating its chain of trust), then the certificate and signed nonce prove that the user or server must be who they claim to be.